Welcome everyone to this lecture where we're going to use Python to implement the real object detection
network.
So we're going to explore how to implement ulo.
Version 3 with Python and we're going to be using an implementation of all three has been trained on
the cocoa data set.
The cocoa data set has over 1.5 million object instances with 80 different object categories and we'll
be using a pre-trained model that has been trained on this Kokoo data set in order to explore the capabilities
of yolo realistically.
If you wanted to train the network on your own instance of the cocoa data set it would actually take
many many hours several days of training and that would be using a very high end and expensive GPU to
achieve anything reasonable.
So because of the amount of time it takes and also just expense and running that GPU we're going to
actually download the weights of a pre-trained network.
So this network is hugely complex.
Remember I said the cocoa data set includes over 1.5 million object instances.
It's 80 different classes which means even after the entire training the just the weights of the network
itself is over 200 megabytes you're going to download a really large network just to see the effects
here.
So check out the research link in this lecture that download the file.
Keep in mind it's over 200 megabytes So it may take some time.
If you have a slower internet connection once you've downloaded that file you're going to need to place
it in the data.
There are clear of the whole folder and I'll show you how to do that in just a little bit.
Then after that we already created a notebook that you have with easy to call functions in order to
explore Ulo on your own images.
So let's walk you through this entire process on setting up the weights.
Downloading them placing them in the correct directory and then running through the notebook.
Let's get started.
All right so if you click on the resource link it's also linked in the previous article lectures you
may have already downloaded this by the time reviewing but you should be able to see the yellow dot
H5 file here.
This is a 200 megabyte file so it's quite large soccerball to preview.
This is the actual H5 file that we're going to be loading that already has the pre-trained waits of
the network.
So then go ahead and click download here and then make sure you keep track of where the file actually
is.
Most likely you just went to your Downloads folder.
So I'm going to download this.
It'll take a little bit of time.
So going to fast forward and then open it up and my actual Downloads folder.
So let's skip to that.
OK so I've downloaded the actual H5 file that was quite large about 200 megabytes and I've opened up
two windows.
One is my actual downloads window or folder and then the other one is the directory for this course
in the notebooks computer vision with Python.
What we need to do is find the location of wherever you happen to download and say that yolo that H5.
So here it is for me.
I'm going to right click on it and you can either cut or copy this.
So I'm going to just cut it and then you need to place it underneath.
Deep learning computer vision.
So that's six in these folders.
And then it's a computer vision with Python victory double click that you'll notice we have the SpaceX
notebook and this note book that we've already seen over here you see YOLO v3.
That should be at the top it's it's own little directory.
Double click on that.
And then you should see a bunch of folders here and some demos as well as a whole object detection notebook.
What you're going to do is open up the data directory.
So again just to see the whole path here.
This is deep learning computer vision.
You'll have the 3 data you should have a Cocco classes that textfile what I need you to do is then paste
in the Yodok H5 so you'll H5 that actual pre-trained network is going to go underneath your data directory
which is underneath the Ullevi 3 folder which is underneath the computer vision which itself is underneath
computer vision of Python.
Once you've put that 8:5 file there you should be ready to run the notebook.
So I'm going to start Juber lab and then go to the notebook that is underneath the YOLO.
So this yellow object detection.
OK let's jump to Jupiter lab and get that started.
OK so here I am at Jupiter lab instead of my browser.
If you did everything correctly you should now be able to click on deep learning then go to Ullevi theory
directory.
Then if you check actual data at the rectory you should now see yolo.
H5.
That's what we're going to be using.
So let's go ahead and then back out and the actual notebook we're going to be running is this yellow
object detection notebook.
So 0 6 you'll Oggi detection.
Go ahead and double click on that notebook and you should see something like this.
Open up.
Keep in mind we went ahead and linked the actual source code here so you can check out the own implementation
as well as how to reference the original Ulo three publication in case you want to reference that in
your own research.
And if you see something that says you must watch the video lecture properly set up the model and wait.
That's what we already did.
So mixture you've set up those model and weights.
And as a quick note before we actually run the note book what I wanted to show you here is you can go
to cookoo data set or you can actually then play around with the data set.
So as I mentioned it's a really large data center that also has the original research paper from Microsoft
that created this data set.
And if you click here on data set you can do overview and then explore and actually allows you to kind
of select different objects from a data set and then check them out.
So for example if you want to check out apples you can hit search here and eventually you'll see a couple
of image results of apples.
So keep in mind not every image is going to be shown here but here you just see various images where
there happens to be an Apple somewhere in the image.
So some of them are actually quite distinct so you can see here there's a little apple in the bowl there
along with other people.
And here there's a bird and an apple so the network is actually going to be pretty good at detecting
that sort of thing.
So there are data set going to enclose this.
And let's come back to this yellow notebook.
Go ahead and just run the cell so first you start off a bunch of imports and then we have a process
image function.
And what this does is it's resizes reduces or expands the image depending on the original size of the
image.
So we have process image it's going to take taken the image and then fix it to make sure it works with
the pre-treat network.
So then go ahead and run that then we have this get classes file which is going to grab classes from
the classes text file.
So if we actually come back here in Lotus under data there's a cookoo classes that text file which actually
contains a list of all the classes.
So that's going to set up the class names.
So it actually reads in the text file and you can actually double click it and look at the various classes
that are in the Ko-Ko dataset.
So as I mentioned earlier there's 80 different classes here are things that can detect.
So let's go ahead and close that come back to the notebook.
So go ahead and run that function make sure these functions are being run and defined.
Then we also have the draw function it takes in an image boxes scores and classes and when it's going
to do is going to use CB2 to draw a rectangle on top of where the image was identified and the text
on what class a predicted image as well as labeling.
What percent sure it was it was that image.
So it was maybe 95 percent sure that that person or the picture was a person.
Go ahead and run that cell.
And then we have the text image.
So what this does is it takes image and it's going to use the Ullevi v3 network that we just downloaded
in order to try to protect the image.
So we just call Ulo and then call predict and we're going to pass an image.
So a lot of code we already set it up for you.
Just because it's kind of unrealistic to program all of this yourself given the fact that it just takes
so long to train this sort of network.
There's also a Detect video functionality.
So if you don't wanted to text lungis images but you want to track during a video things like tracking
a different person or tracking a car or any of those classes there's a detective video function that
will also work for you here.
So really similar to the function above.
It's just going to do video capture and then detect on frames as it goes along.
So it's essentially is calling into the text image function frame by frame and then it's going to just
keep writing that rectangle there.
It also saves the video frame.
So it's go ahead and run that and then we're going to do here is just create an instance of YOLO.
So if you're wondering what this YOLO function is if you scroll all the way back up to the top here
you'll notice we say from model that yolo model import yolo.
So if you come back up here into your 06 folder you'll notice there's a model directory.
If you double click on that there's a Yoel modeled up-I.
So you click on you'll model that pie.
And essentially this is the file that's creating the actual Karris model.
So it's designed as a class it's easily imported into other notebooks or other scripts and you can check
this out for the full details.
But essentially what this is doing is designing its way to draw boxes around the images as well as building
the actual network itself.
So that come back here and create an instance of that Yolen model.
All the way back down here.
We went ahead and read in the is that text file and then we'll get all the classes.
So go ahead and run this and this may take a little bit of time to run because it's loading up the H5
file.
So this is going to take a little bit of time.
So let's go ahead and fast forward until the model has been done.
Loading.
Keep in mind it's about a 200 megabyte file.
OK.
So that finished running for me.
You make it a little bit of warning here don't worry.
The model hasn't been compiled yet.
That's actually going compile once we call the detect image.
All right.
So the final step is to actually grab an image to detect objects and objects that are within the Cocco
dataset class list.
Now what I would recommend doing is you can either use the images that we provided for you in the Test
folder or you can download your own image and then place it in the correct directory.
So go ahead and go to splash dot com.
So am on Splash dot com.
It's a bunch of free photos that you can use.
And I would recommend searching for something that's in the cookoo dataset class.
Remember you can go to that Cuco dataset or web site to explore different classes here are going to
search for person car that we can find an image that has both people and cars in it.
So I'm going to scroll down here until I find something good.
So it looks like there's a pretty clear image we have for people.
And then interestingly one of them have their body is covered by this car.
So it'll be interesting to see if the yellow can detect them as a person or not.
And we have one person is totally clear another person is almost totally clear.
And then a person whose feet are missing.
And then we have this large car in the center.
So let's see if we can actually use this image.
I'm going to right click on this and then say save image as and if you come to Ullevi 3 there's an images
folder you can underneath the images folder go ahead and save this file as whatever you want I'm going
to call it.
People underscore car Dodge.
Technically you can save it wherever you are.
We're going to manually tell Yola where to find this file.
So I'm calling it people car or people underscore car.
Go ahead and save that.
Come back and you better laugh.
And you should be able to find it underneath images.
Here we have people underscore car and all you do is provide the file path.
So the file is people underscore car.
And then it's underneath my images folder.
Technically if you're getting any sort of errors just provide the whole file path here again you could
also put it under needs to test folder and then see the results.
It's really up to you just somehow linked the file path to whatever image you're working with then you're
going to read in that image with CB2 and then we're going to detect the image.
And that is what we're going to do here is we're going to write the resulting image.
I mean these images forward slash are asked for results underneath the similar file name.
So inside of this results we have two pictures currently but we expect after rerun this that we should
see the people under score card thought Jay peg and its resulting image underneath the Arrius.
So if you click on people call right now you just see the original image.
So the image is actually quite large meaning text is probably going to be too small for this image but
we should still be able to view the boxes.
We can always change the rectangle sizes if we want as well as the text font size.
So we'll come back to yellow object protection.
And let's go ahead and run this and see if it works.
So we're going to run this and it's going to take maybe around five to 10 seconds depending on how fast
your computer is.
So mine took around six seconds.
I have a pretty fast computer and it looks like it found a person of a score of 99 percent.
Another person will score 75 percent and then a car of a score of ninety eight percent.
So underneath the results I now see people under score card that they peg.
So I'm going to open up that image and then I can see the highlighted objects detected.
So here you see person with nine percent.
So that's clear.
And then I also see the car again.
Ninety eight percent.
So that's pretty good.
And then I see the person here 75 percent.
So notice that even with just a little bit of the leg and foot missing and being covered by the car
that actually detracts a lot from the accuracy that yolo thinks is detecting a person with.
And it's actually not able then to detect these people who have partial coverage.
Notice that they're also looking away so this person is looking away from the camera.
Their legs are covered so it's a little bit harder to tell.
And this person will have their body is missing.
So that's why it's not able to detect those.
And I would recommend that you come to an splosh dotcom and just keep downloading photos and then playing
around with the images and check out the results.
So let's try this one more time.
Here we see four clear people.
And then also a bunch of cars very close to each other.
We'll see if it can detect these four people and then we'll see how it does with the cars.
So I'm going to say save image as and we're going to come back to images and say just for underscore
people that J Pat and save So here you save for underscore people are JP.
Come back to Jupiter lab and underneath the yellow object section will provide that file.
So we'll say for underscore people go ahead and run this may take again somewhere between five and 10
seconds if you're on a fast computer.
So this one was pretty easy.
It just found four people or actually only found three of them.
And then they found the truck.
So let's open up the resulting file and check it out.
We're going to open up on any results.
Now there's a four people that shape.
And you can see here it's able to grab the people and then it's able to actually grab this truck.
That's all the way in the forefront of this image and it's able to do that even if just like half the
truck.
So that's pretty impressive there.
OK.
Again I encourage you to play around with the yellow files as well as different images to see how it
works on your different files.
And you can also run this on detection for video.
Keep in mind that's going to take a lot of time to run in the test because it's essentially just running
Detect images on every single frame and then rewriting all those frames.
So it works the exact same way as this image detection is just does it frame by frame.
Now the last thing I want to mention before we end this lecture is if you scroll back up here you'll
notice that we had two parameters that we provided to yellow.
Those are actually just a threshold primers they can play around with if you come back and open up the
yellow modeled up profile.
You'll notice that there's two parameters you can initialize yellow with and it's the object threshold
and then the and M-S threshold.
So these are thresholds that apply to then be a little more lenient on objects is attacked.
So right now our object threshold essentially how sure we are for an object is set to zero point six.
If we were to rerun this model and go for a much lower threshold maybe like 0.3 we could essentially
rebuild the model or reload it.
But now if this lower threshold and then rerun it on for example to four people that shape and see if
it actually grabs more cars and more people.
Keep in mind the lower threshold there may be some misclassification.
So I'm going to run this again.
And we're running this again on for people that Jay pay.
And we're going to see if we can detect more images given that we're now providing a lower threshold
for actual detection.
So now you'll notice that I was able to detect four people.
So it's going to be able to take that middle person.
They had a score of zero point five four which is why we were able to detect them the first time around.
With a threshold of only 0.6.
So if we come back here and check out the new results or images results for people that jpeg.
Now with that lower threshold if I go ahead and scroll to the right I see this person was now detected
with 0.5 for actually a little surprised that has such a low accuracy for 0.5 for for this person.
To look into this more and see why.
Because this person to me appears just as clear as the three people around him.
So interesting to see that even these really complex neural networks aren't definitely not perfect themselves.
All right.
Hope you enjoyed that and I hope you have fun exploring this YOLO on your own datasets.
We'll see you at the next lecture.